README.md, before:


# graph-analytics-starter-pack

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://github.com/guaiyoui/graph-analytics-starter-pack) 
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Made With Love](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20With-Love-red.svg)](https://github.com/chetanraj/awesome-github-badges)


Graph Analytics和AI4DB相关学习资料/路径

---

## 目录
- [graph-analytics-starter-pack](#graph-analytics-starter-pack)
  - [目录](#目录)
  - [导论](#导论)
  - [视频课程](#视频课程)
    - [主要课程](#主要课程)
    - [参考课程](#参考课程)
    - [重点章节](#重点章节)
  - [Cohesive Subgraph Discovery](#cohesive-subgraph-discovery)
    - [1.1 Subgraph-model-based Community Search](#11-subgraph-model-based-community-search)
    - [1.2 Metric-based Community Search](#12-metric-based-community-search)
    - [1.3 Learning-based Community Search](#13-learning-based-community-search)
  - [Generalized Anomaly Detection](#generalized-anomaly-detection)
    - [综述](#综述)
    - [Anomaly Detection](#anomaly-detection)
    - [Fraud Detection](#fraud-detection)
  - [Graph Similarity Computation](#graph-similarity-computation)
  - [Cardinality Estimation](#cardinality-estimation)
  - [Subgraph Matching/Counting](#subgraph-matchingcounting)
  - [其他](#其他)
    - [论文写作](#论文写作)
    - [画图](#画图)
    - [工具](#工具)

## 导论
Graph Analytics和AI for Database是当今数据分析和人工智能领域中的两个重要分支。Graph Analytics通过分析图形数据来揭示数据背后的模式和关系，帮助人们更好地理解和利用数据。AI4DB则利用机器学习和人工智能技术来处理和管理大规模数据库、解决NP-hard的图相关问题，提高数据处理的效率和准确性。

在Graph Analytics和AI for Database领域，我们一般关注来自以下会议的学术论文:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Category</th><th>Conference</th><th>Link</th><th>Comment</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="3">Database</td><td>SIGMOD</td><td> <a href="https://dblp.org/db/conf/sigmod/sigmod2022.html" target="_blank">DBLP, </a>  <a href="https://2022.sigmod.org/" target="_blank">官网</a>  </td> <td> Pioneering conference in Database</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>VLDB</td><td><a href="http://vldb.org/pvldb/volumes/16/" target="_blank">VLDB</a></td> <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ICDE</td><td> <a href="https://icde2023.ics.uci.edu/" target="_blank">ICDE</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="3">AI/ML/DL</td><td>ICML</td><td> <a href="https://dblp.org/db/conf/icml/icml2022.html" target="_blank">ICML</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ICLR</td><td> <a href="https://dblp.org/db/conf/iclr/iclr2022.html" target="_blank">ICLR</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>NeurIPS</td><td> <a href="https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2022" target="_blank">NeurIPS</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="1">Data Mining</td><td>KDD</td><td> <a href="https://kdd.org/kdd2022/paperRT.html" target="_blank">KDD</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
</table>



## 视频课程
### 主要课程
- [Stanford CS224W Machine Learning with Graphs 课程网址](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224w/)
- [Stanford CS224W Machine Learning with Graphs 课程视频](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1RZ4y1c7Co/?spm_id_from=333.337.search-card.all.click&vd_source=eb83fc5d65c5d8ce4504000a8b1a7056)
- [UNSW COMP9312 Data Analytics for Graphs](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/tree/main/COMP9312)

### 参考课程
- [Stanford CS520 Knowledge Graphs (2021)](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1hb4y1r7fF/?from=search&seid=6234955209527085652&spm_id_from=333.337.0.0&vd_source=eb83fc5d65c5d8ce4504000a8b1a7056)
- [Stanford CS246 大数据挖掘 (2019)](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1SC4y187x1/?from=search&seid=1692751967493851255&spm_id_from=333.337.0.0&vd_source=eb83fc5d65c5d8ce4504000a8b1a7056)
- [Stanford Course Explore](https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?view=catalog&academicYear=&page=0&q=CS&filter-departmentcode-CS=on&filter-coursestatus-Active=on&filter-term-Autumn=on)

### 重点章节
| Week  | Content  | Reading List  | Material  |
|---|---|---|---|
|1| Node Embedding  | [1: DeepWalk: Online Learning of Social Representations](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1403.6652.pdf)<br>[2: node2vec: Scalable Feature Learning for Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.00653.pdf) | 节点表征是learning中最基础的一个问题。可以参考CS224W 3rd和COMP9312 week6的内容。传统的矩阵分解方法可以参考：[矩阵分解的python实现](https://blog.csdn.net/qq_43741312/article/details/97548944) | 
|2| Graph Neural Networks  | [1: Semi-Supervised Classification with Graph Convolutional Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.02907.pdf)<br>[2: Graph Attention Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.10903.pdf)   | 模型的结构是learning的核心(CS224W 4th)，reading list给了两个经典模型: GCN和GAT。关于神经网络中每一层的结构，可以参考tutorial: [Learning basic](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/tutorials/Tutorial5_inclasscode.ipynb) | 
|3| GNN Augmentation and Training   |  [1: RotatE: Knowledge Graph Embedding by Relational Rotation in Complex Space](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1902.10197.pdf)<br>[2: Hyper-Path-Based Representation Learning for Hyper-Networks.](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.09152) | 介绍整个GNN的流程，可以参考CS224W 6th。reading list给了其他representation learning的方法和在knowledge graph/hypergraph上的拓展。怎么embedding可以参考tutorial: [Node embedding](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/tutorials/tutorial6_Node_Embedding.ipynb)  |
|4| Theory of Graph Neural Networks  | [1: Anomaly Detection on Attributed Networks via Contrastive Self-Supervised Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.00113)<br>[2: Sub-graph Contrast for Scalable Self-Supervised Graph Representation Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.10273)  | 对神经网络的分析，可以参考CS224w 7th. reading list给了目前主流的self supervised的embedding方法和网络框架。怎么用learning来做基础任务，参考tutorial: [Downstream Application: node classification, link prediction and graph classification](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/tutorials/Tutorial7_Downstream_Applications_Template.ipynb)  |
|5| Label Propagation on Graphs |  [1: GLSearch: Maximum Common Subgraph Detection via Learning to Search](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v139/bai21e/bai21e.pdf)<br>[2: Computing Graph Edit Distance via Neural Graph Matching](https://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol16/p1817-cheng.pdf) | 参考CS224W 8th. reading list给了graph similarity computation (NP hard)问题的两种解决方法。自己实现GCN的结构，可以参考tutorial: [Graph Convolutional Network](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/tutorials/tutorial_8.ipynb)  |
|6| Subgraph Matching and Counting |  [1: A Learned Sketch for Subgraph Counting](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3448016.3457289)<br>[2: Neural Subgraph Counting with Wasserstein Estimator](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3514221.3526163) | 参考CS224W 12nd. reading list给了subgraph counting (NP hard)问题的两篇文章(from sigmod 2021 and sigmod 2022)。subcon论文的仓库代码在 [Contrastive Learning on Graph](https://github.com/yzjiao/Subg-Con)  |



<p id="CohesiveSubgraphDiscovery"></p>

## Cohesive Subgraph Discovery
Cohesive Subgraph Discovery是一种在图形数据中寻找具有高度内聚性的子图的问题。

### 1.1 Subgraph-model-based Community Search
Subgraph-model-based community search model the community as various subgraph models, e.g., k-core, k-truss, and k connected component.

### 1.2 Metric-based Community Search
The metric-based community search methods aims to find a connected subgraph that contains the query nodes and has the largest metric, e.g., density, modularity....

| Conference | Paper  |  Material | Abstract | Highlights |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|SIGMOD2022|[DMCS: Density Modularity based Community Search](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3514221.3526137)|---| maximize the density modularity| Propose a new modulariity called density modularity to alleviate free-rider effect and resolution limit problem. |
|VLDB2015|[Robust local community detection: on free rider effect and its elimination](http://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol8/p798-wu.pdf)|---| maximize the query biased density | Systematically study the many goodness functions, and provide detailed proof. |




### 1.3 Learning-based Community Search
Learning-based community search的方法，一般把问题model成node classification的任务。

| Conference | Paper  |  Material | Abstract | Highlights |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|VLDB2021|[ICS-GNN: lightweight interactive community search via graph neural network](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.14778/3447689.3447704)|[[code]](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/files/ics-gnn.zip)| Find a community in multiple iterations (i.e., hops)|---|
|VLDB2022|[Query Driven-Graph Neural Networks for Community Search](https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.03583)|[[code]](https://github.com/lizJyl/Codes-for-Peer-Review-of-VLDB-August-337)|QD-GNN and AQD-GNN for community search and attributed community search respectively|Take query into account. Study multiple CS-related settings.|
|ICDE2023|[Community Search: A Meta-Learning Approach](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.00288)|---|CS using small data|---|
|ICDE2023|[COCLEP: Contrastive Learning-based Semi-Supervised Community Search](https://siqiangluo.com/docs/COCLEP__Contrastive_Learning_based_Semi_Supervised_Community_Search__camera_ready_.pdf)|---|论文针对目前基于深度学习的社区搜索模型依赖大量实际难以获取的标记数据进行训练的问题，提出了一种基于对比学习和数据分区的社区搜索方法(COCLEP)，只需极少量的标签即可实现高效且有效的社区查询任务，其基本原理是通过所提出的图神经网络和标签感知对比学习器来学习查询依赖的模型。此外，论文从理论上证明了可以利用最小割将COCLEP扩展用于大型数据集。|---|

<p id="GeneralizedAnomalyDetection"></p>

## Generalized Anomaly Detection
Generalized Anomaly Detection包括了很多类似的问题，比如: anomaly detection, novelty detection, open set recognition, out-of-distribution detection 和 outlier detection.
### 综述
- Generalized Out-of-Distribution Detection: A Survey [[paper]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2110.11334.pdf)

### Anomaly Detection
- ICLR2022 anomaly detection for tabular data with internal contrastive learning. [[paper]](https://openreview.net/forum?id=_hszZbt46bT)
- ..... To be continued

### Fraud Detection
- [入门综述论文](https://github.com/safe-graph/graph-fraud-detection-papers#survey-paper-back-to-top)
- [入门论文列表](https://github.com/safe-graph/graph-fraud-detection-papers)
- [入门代码demo](https://github.com/finint/antifraud)
- [TKDE Community Aware反洗钱 Anti-Money Laundering by Group-Aware Deep Graph Learning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10114503)
- [AAAI Risk-Aware反诈骗 Semi-Supervised Credit Card Fraud Detection via Attribute-Driven Graph Representation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.01171.pdf)
- [TKDE Spatial-Aware反诈骗 Graph Neural Network for Fraud Detection via Spatial-temporal Attention](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9204584)



<p id="GraphSimilarityComputation"></p>

## Graph Similarity Computation

<p id="CardinalityEstimation"></p>

## Cardinality Estimation

<p id="SubgraphMatching"></p>

## Subgraph Matching/Counting









## 其他
- [PKU Lanco Lab 入门指导](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/files/NLP%E5%85%A5%E9%97%A8%E6%8C%87%E5%AF%BC.pdf)
- [CS224w学习资料](https://yasoz.github.io/cs224w-zh/#/Introduction-and-Graph-Structure)

### 论文写作
- [Writing tips from MLNLP](https://github.com/MLNLP-World/Paper-Writing-Tips#%E7%99%BE%E5%AE%B6%E4%B9%8B%E8%A8%80)
- [在线latex编辑器](https://www.latexlive.com/)
### 画图
- [https://github.com/guanyingc/python_plot_utils](https://github.com/guanyingc/python_plot_utils)
### 工具
- [谷歌学术](https://scholar.google.com.hk/)
- [ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com/), [POE: 集成多个语言模型](https://poe.com/ChatGPT)
- [ChatGPT学术润色的prompt参考](https://github.com/ashawkey/chatgpt_please_improve_my_paper_writing)

Commit message:

add graph4DB and vector DB

README.md, after:


# graph-analytics-starter-pack

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://github.com/guaiyoui/graph-analytics-starter-pack) 
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Made With Love](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20With-Love-red.svg)](https://github.com/chetanraj/awesome-github-badges)


Graph Analytics和AI4DB相关学习资料/路径

---

## 目录
- [graph-analytics-starter-pack](#graph-analytics-starter-pack)
  - [目录](#目录)
  - [导论](#导论)
  - [视频课程](#视频课程)
    - [主要课程](#主要课程)
    - [参考课程](#参考课程)
    - [重点章节](#重点章节)
  - [Cohesive Subgraph Discovery](#cohesive-subgraph-discovery)
    - [1.1 Subgraph-model-based Community Search](#11-subgraph-model-based-community-search)
    - [1.2 Metric-based Community Search](#12-metric-based-community-search)
    - [1.3 Learning-based Community Search](#13-learning-based-community-search)
  - [Generalized Anomaly Detection](#generalized-anomaly-detection)
    - [综述](#综述)
    - [Anomaly Detection](#anomaly-detection)
    - [Fraud Detection](#fraud-detection)
  - [Graph Similarity Computation](#graph-similarity-computation)
  - [Subgraph Matching/Counting](#subgraph-matchingcounting)
  - [Cardinality Estimation](#cardinality-estimation)
  - [Graph4DB/Tabular](#Graph4DB)
  - [Vector Database](#VectorDB)
  - [其他](#其他)
    - [论文写作](#论文写作)
    - [画图](#画图)
    - [工具](#工具)


## 导论
Graph Analytics和AI for Database是当今数据分析和人工智能领域中的两个重要分支。Graph Analytics通过分析图形数据来揭示数据背后的模式和关系，帮助人们更好地理解和利用数据。AI4DB则利用机器学习和人工智能技术来处理和管理大规模数据库、解决NP-hard的图相关问题，提高数据处理的效率和准确性。

在Graph Analytics和AI for Database领域，我们一般关注来自以下会议的学术论文:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Category</th><th>Conference</th><th>Link</th><th>Comment</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="3">Database</td><td>SIGMOD</td><td> <a href="https://dblp.org/db/conf/sigmod/sigmod2022.html" target="_blank">DBLP, </a>  <a href="https://2022.sigmod.org/" target="_blank">官网</a>  </td> <td> Pioneering conference in Database</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>VLDB</td><td><a href="http://vldb.org/pvldb/volumes/16/" target="_blank">VLDB</a></td> <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ICDE</td><td> <a href="https://icde2023.ics.uci.edu/" target="_blank">ICDE</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="3">AI/ML/DL</td><td>ICML</td><td> <a href="https://dblp.org/db/conf/icml/icml2022.html" target="_blank">ICML</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>ICLR</td><td> <a href="https://dblp.org/db/conf/iclr/iclr2022.html" target="_blank">ICLR</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>NeurIPS</td><td> <a href="https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2022" target="_blank">NeurIPS</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="1">Data Mining</td><td>KDD</td><td> <a href="https://kdd.org/kdd2022/paperRT.html" target="_blank">KDD</a> </td>  <td> </td>
    </tr>
</table>



## 视频课程
### 主要课程
- [Stanford CS224W Machine Learning with Graphs 课程网址](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224w/)
- [Stanford CS224W Machine Learning with Graphs 课程视频](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1RZ4y1c7Co/?spm_id_from=333.337.search-card.all.click&vd_source=eb83fc5d65c5d8ce4504000a8b1a7056)
- [UNSW COMP9312 Data Analytics for Graphs](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/tree/main/COMP9312)

### 参考课程
- [Stanford CS520 Knowledge Graphs (2021)](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1hb4y1r7fF/?from=search&seid=6234955209527085652&spm_id_from=333.337.0.0&vd_source=eb83fc5d65c5d8ce4504000a8b1a7056)
- [Stanford CS246 大数据挖掘 (2019)](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1SC4y187x1/?from=search&seid=1692751967493851255&spm_id_from=333.337.0.0&vd_source=eb83fc5d65c5d8ce4504000a8b1a7056)
- [Stanford Course Explore](https://explorecourses.stanford.edu/search?view=catalog&academicYear=&page=0&q=CS&filter-departmentcode-CS=on&filter-coursestatus-Active=on&filter-term-Autumn=on)

### 重点章节
| Week  | Content  | Reading List  | Material  |
|---|---|---|---|
|1| Node Embedding  | [1: DeepWalk: Online Learning of Social Representations](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1403.6652.pdf)<br>[2: node2vec: Scalable Feature Learning for Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.00653.pdf) | 节点表征是learning中最基础的一个问题。可以参考CS224W 3rd和COMP9312 week6的内容。传统的矩阵分解方法可以参考：[矩阵分解的python实现](https://blog.csdn.net/qq_43741312/article/details/97548944) | 
|2| Graph Neural Networks  | [1: Semi-Supervised Classification with Graph Convolutional Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.02907.pdf)<br>[2: Graph Attention Networks](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.10903.pdf)   | 模型的结构是learning的核心(CS224W 4th)，reading list给了两个经典模型: GCN和GAT。关于神经网络中每一层的结构，可以参考tutorial: [Learning basic](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/tutorials/Tutorial5_inclasscode.ipynb) | 
|3| GNN Augmentation and Training   |  [1: RotatE: Knowledge Graph Embedding by Relational Rotation in Complex Space](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1902.10197.pdf)<br>[2: Hyper-Path-Based Representation Learning for Hyper-Networks.](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.09152) | 介绍整个GNN的流程，可以参考CS224W 6th。reading list给了其他representation learning的方法和在knowledge graph/hypergraph上的拓展。怎么embedding可以参考tutorial: [Node embedding](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/tutorials/tutorial6_Node_Embedding.ipynb)  |
|4| Theory of Graph Neural Networks  | [1: Anomaly Detection on Attributed Networks via Contrastive Self-Supervised Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.00113)<br>[2: Sub-graph Contrast for Scalable Self-Supervised Graph Representation Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.10273)  | 对神经网络的分析，可以参考CS224w 7th. reading list给了目前主流的self supervised的embedding方法和网络框架。怎么用learning来做基础任务，参考tutorial: [Downstream Application: node classification, link prediction and graph classification](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/tutorials/Tutorial7_Downstream_Applications_Template.ipynb)  |
|5| Label Propagation on Graphs |  [1: GLSearch: Maximum Common Subgraph Detection via Learning to Search](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v139/bai21e/bai21e.pdf)<br>[2: Computing Graph Edit Distance via Neural Graph Matching](https://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol16/p1817-cheng.pdf) | 参考CS224W 8th. reading list给了graph similarity computation (NP hard)问题的两种解决方法。自己实现GCN的结构，可以参考tutorial: [Graph Convolutional Network](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/tutorials/tutorial_8.ipynb)  |
|6| Subgraph Matching and Counting |  [1: A Learned Sketch for Subgraph Counting](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3448016.3457289)<br>[2: Neural Subgraph Counting with Wasserstein Estimator](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3514221.3526163) | 参考CS224W 12nd. reading list给了subgraph counting (NP hard)问题的两篇文章(from sigmod 2021 and sigmod 2022)。subcon论文的仓库代码在 [Contrastive Learning on Graph](https://github.com/yzjiao/Subg-Con)  |



<p id="CohesiveSubgraphDiscovery"></p>

## Cohesive Subgraph Discovery
Cohesive Subgraph Discovery是一种在图形数据中寻找具有高度内聚性的子图的问题。

### 1.1 Subgraph-model-based Community Search
Subgraph-model-based community search model the community as various subgraph models, e.g., k-core, k-truss, and k connected component.

### 1.2 Metric-based Community Search
The metric-based community search methods aims to find a connected subgraph that contains the query nodes and has the largest metric, e.g., density, modularity....

| Conference | Paper  |  Material | Abstract | Highlights |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|SIGMOD2022|[DMCS: Density Modularity based Community Search](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3514221.3526137)|---| maximize the density modularity| Propose a new modulariity called density modularity to alleviate free-rider effect and resolution limit problem. |
|VLDB2015|[Robust local community detection: on free rider effect and its elimination](http://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol8/p798-wu.pdf)|---| maximize the query biased density | Systematically study the many goodness functions, and provide detailed proof. |




### 1.3 Learning-based Community Search
Learning-based community search的方法，一般把问题model成node classification的任务。

| Conference | Paper  |  Material | Abstract | Highlights |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|VLDB2021|[ICS-GNN: lightweight interactive community search via graph neural network](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.14778/3447689.3447704)|[[code]](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/files/ics-gnn.zip)| Find a community in multiple iterations (i.e., hops)|---|
|VLDB2022|[Query Driven-Graph Neural Networks for Community Search](https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.03583)|[[code]](https://github.com/lizJyl/Codes-for-Peer-Review-of-VLDB-August-337)|QD-GNN and AQD-GNN for community search and attributed community search respectively|Take query into account. Study multiple CS-related settings.|
|ICDE2023|[Community Search: A Meta-Learning Approach](https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.00288)|---|CS using small data|---|
|ICDE2023|[COCLEP: Contrastive Learning-based Semi-Supervised Community Search](https://siqiangluo.com/docs/COCLEP__Contrastive_Learning_based_Semi_Supervised_Community_Search__camera_ready_.pdf)|---|论文针对目前基于深度学习的社区搜索模型依赖大量实际难以获取的标记数据进行训练的问题，提出了一种基于对比学习和数据分区的社区搜索方法(COCLEP)，只需极少量的标签即可实现高效且有效的社区查询任务，其基本原理是通过所提出的图神经网络和标签感知对比学习器来学习查询依赖的模型。此外，论文从理论上证明了可以利用最小割将COCLEP扩展用于大型数据集。|---|

<p id="GeneralizedAnomalyDetection"></p>

## Generalized Anomaly Detection
Generalized Anomaly Detection包括了很多类似的问题，比如: anomaly detection, novelty detection, open set recognition, out-of-distribution detection 和 outlier detection.
### 综述
- Generalized Out-of-Distribution Detection: A Survey [[paper]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2110.11334.pdf)

### Anomaly Detection

| Conference | Paper  |  Material | Abstract | Highlights |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|ICLR2022|[Anomaly detection for tabular data with internal contrastive learning.](https://openreview.net/forum?id=_hszZbt46bT)|[[code]](https://openreview.net/forum?id=_hszZbt46bT)| KNN and Contrastive Learning for Tabular data| -- |
|ICDE2023|[Unsupervised Graph Outlier Detection: Problem Revisit, New Insight, and Superior Method.](https://fanzhangcs.github.io/)|---| --- | --- |


### Fraud Detection
- [入门综述论文](https://github.com/safe-graph/graph-fraud-detection-papers#survey-paper-back-to-top)
- [入门论文列表](https://github.com/safe-graph/graph-fraud-detection-papers)
- [入门代码demo](https://github.com/finint/antifraud)
- [TKDE Community Aware反洗钱 Anti-Money Laundering by Group-Aware Deep Graph Learning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10114503)
- [AAAI Risk-Aware反诈骗 Semi-Supervised Credit Card Fraud Detection via Attribute-Driven Graph Representation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.01171.pdf)
- [TKDE Spatial-Aware反诈骗 Graph Neural Network for Fraud Detection via Spatial-temporal Attention](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9204584)



<p id="GraphSimilarityComputation"></p>

## Graph Similarity Computation


<p id="SubgraphMatching"></p>

## Subgraph Matching/Counting

<p id="CardinalityEstimation"></p>

## Cardinality Estimation

<p id="Graph4DB"></p>

## Graph4DB/Tabular

Graphs are a valuable tool for representing connections between entities, while tabular or relational data is a convenient and user-friendly way to store information. Researchers frequently employ graphs to depict interdependencies among records, attributes, elements, and schemas within and across tables. It is worth noting that in contemporary usage, the term "tabular deep learning" is often used to refer to the application of deep learning techniques to relational data organized as records, while the term "database" is often reserved to refer specifically to the software and infrastructure used to manage and manipulate such data.


| Conference | Paper  |  Material | Abstract | Highlights |
|---|---|---|---|---|
|PODS2023|[Databases as Graphs: Predictive Queries for Declarative Machine Learning.](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3584372.3589939)|---| Using hypergraph to model the relationship behind the records| -- |
|---|[Enabling tabular deep learning when d ge n with an auxiliary knowledge graph](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.04766)|---| --- | -- |

<p id="VectorDB"></p>

## Vector Database







## 其他
- [PKU Lanco Lab 入门指导](https://github.com/guaiyoui/awesome-graph-analytics/blob/main/files/NLP%E5%85%A5%E9%97%A8%E6%8C%87%E5%AF%BC.pdf)
- [CS224w学习资料](https://yasoz.github.io/cs224w-zh/#/Introduction-and-Graph-Structure)

### 论文写作
- [Writing tips from MLNLP](https://github.com/MLNLP-World/Paper-Writing-Tips#%E7%99%BE%E5%AE%B6%E4%B9%8B%E8%A8%80)
- [在线latex编辑器](https://www.latexlive.com/)
### 画图
- [https://github.com/guanyingc/python_plot_utils](https://github.com/guanyingc/python_plot_utils)
### 工具
- [谷歌学术](https://scholar.google.com.hk/)
- [ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com/), [POE: 集成多个语言模型](https://poe.com/ChatGPT)
- [ChatGPT学术润色的prompt参考](https://github.com/ashawkey/chatgpt_please_improve_my_paper_writing)
